First iteration of the new Katib UI (#1427)
kubeflow/katib: pkg/new-ui/v1beta1/README.md

# Katib User Interface

This is the source code for the Katib UI. Current version of Katib UI is v1beta1. On the official Kubeflow website [here](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/hyperparameter-tuning/experiment/#running-the-experiment-from-the-katib-ui) you can find information how to use Katib UI.
We are using [Angular](https://angular.io/) framework to create frontend and Go as a backend.

> We are using [Material UI](https://material-ui.com/) to design frontend. Try to use Material UI components to implement new Katib UI features.

Author: Good catch, I'll update the README with Angular's page for Material https://material.angular.io/

> We are using [Material UI](https://material-ui.com/) to design frontend. Try to use Material UI components to implement new Katib UI features.

Author: pushed a new commit for this

- `node` (v12 or later) and `npm` (v6.13 or later). Recommended to install `node` and `npm` using [`nvm`](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm). After installing `nvm`, you can run `nvm install 12.18.1` to install `node` version 12.18.1 and run `nvm use 12.18.1` to use that version.

## Development

While development you have different ways to run Katib UI.

### Start frontend server

There are two things you will need to do to run the Kubeflow UI locally. First is to install the node modules of the app and secondly to create a module from the [common library](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/crud-web-apps/common/frontend/kubeflow-common-lib).

You can build the common library with:
```bash
cd /tmp && git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow.git \
  && cd kubeflow \
  && git checkout a349284 \
  && cd components/crud-web-apps/common/frontend/kubeflow-common-lib

# build the common library module
npm i
npm run build

# link the module to your npm packages
# depending on where you npm stores the global packages you
# might need to use sudo
npm link dist/kubeflow
```

And then build and run the UI locally, on `localhost:4200`, with:
```bash

> cd $KATIB_REPO/pkg/new-ui/v1beta1/frontend

Author: Sure, I'll add this section [will also `cd` to the expected place]

> cd $KATIB_REPO/pkg/new-ui/v1beta1/frontend

Author: pushed a new commit for this

npm i
npm link kubeflow
npm run start
```

### Serve UI frontend and backend

This is the recommended way to test the web app e2e.

You can serve Katib UI locally. To make it you need to follow these steps:

> 1. Build and run the UI locally with the commands from the previous section

Author: Resolving this as we've updated the README file accordingly

1. Create a module from the [common library](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/crud-web-apps/common/frontend/kubeflow-common-lib)
2. Install the node modules of the app and also link the common-library module

You can build the common library with:
```bash
cd /tmp && git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow.git \
  && cd kubeflow \
  && git checkout a349284 \
  && cd components/crud-web-apps/common/frontend/kubeflow-common-lib

# build the common library module
npm i
npm run build

# link the module to your npm packages
# depending on where you npm stores the global packages you
# might need to use sudo
npm link dist/kubeflow
```

And then build and run the UI locally, on `localhost:4200`, with:
```bash
# If you've already cloned the repo then skip this step and just
# navigate to the pkg/new-ui/v1beta1/frontend dir
cd /tmp && git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/katib.git \
  && cd katib/pkg/new-ui/v1beta1/frontend

npm i
npm link kubeflow
npm run start
```

### Serve the UI  from the backend

This is the recommended way to test the web app e2e. In order to build the UI and serve it via the backend, locally, you will need to:

> 1. Build the UI locally. You can follow the steps from the previous section, but instead of running `npm run start` you will need to run `npm run build:watch`. This will start a process that will be watching the source code and building the frontend artifacts under `frontend/dist/static` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Build the UI locally. You have to follow the steps from the previous section, but instead of running `npm run start` you need to run `npm run build:prod`. It builds the frontend artifacts under `frontend/dist/static` folder.
    
    Moreover, you are able to run `npm run build:watch` instead of `npm run build:prod`. In that case, it starts a process which is watching the source code changes and building the frontend artifacts under `frontend/dist/static` folder.

    Learn more about Angular scripts in the [official guide](https://angular.io/cli/build).
```

What do you think @kimwnasptd ?

Author: Seems great, thanks!

1. Create a module from the [common library](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/tree/master/components/crud-web-apps/common/frontend/kubeflow-common-lib)
2. Install the node modules of the app and also link the common-library module

You can build the common library with:
```bash
cd /tmp && git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow.git \
  && cd kubeflow \
  && git checkout a349284 \
  && cd components/crud-web-apps/common/frontend/kubeflow-common-lib

# build the common library module
npm i
npm run build

# link the module to your npm packages
# depending on where you npm stores the global packages you
# might need to use sudo
npm link dist/kubeflow
```

And then build and run the UI locally, on `localhost:4200`, with:
```bash
# If you've already cloned the repo then skip this step and just
# navigate to the pkg/new-ui/v1beta1/frontend dir
cd /tmp && git clone https://github.com/kubeflow/katib.git \
  && cd katib/pkg/new-ui/v1beta1/frontend

npm i
npm link kubeflow
npm run start
```

### Serve the UI  from the backend

This is the recommended way to test the web app e2e. In order to build the UI and serve it via the backend, locally, you will need to:

> 1. Build the UI locally. You can follow the steps from the previous section, but instead of running `npm run start` you will need to run `npm run build:watch`. This will start a process that will be watching the source code and building the frontend artifacts under `frontend/dist/static` folder.

Reviewer: What do you think about this ?
```suggestion
1. Build the UI locally. You can follow the steps from the previous section, but instead of running `npm run start` you have to run `npm run build`. That creates build under `funder/dist/default` folder. 
 
Moreover, instead of `npm run build` you can run `npm run build:watch` which starts a process that is watching the source code and building the frontend artefacts under `frontend/dist/default` folder.

Learn more about Angular scripts in the [official guide](https://angular.io/cli/build).
```

Author: I think there's a typo there in the word `funder` [should be `frontent`] right?

Also we must use the `static` folder for the produced files, as we just discussed https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/pull/1427#discussion_r580918723.

Reviewer: > I think there's a typo there in the word funder [should be frontent] right?

You are right, sorry 👍 

> Also we must use the static folder for the produced files, as we just discussed #1427 (comment).

Got it.

Author: [ lol, I made a typo myself when I asked if you had made a typo `frontent` -> `frontend` ]

I'll create a new commit on top with your proposed changes there

Author: I can't put the dedicated paragraph for `build:watch` in the proposed place since it will break the numbered list.

@andreyvelich could you make another proposed commit with how you would like us to phrase this?

Reviewer: Sure, let me check.

1. Run `kubectl port-forward svc/katib-db-manager 6789 -n kubeflow` to expose `katib-db-manager` service for external access. You can use [different ways](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/) to get external address for Kubernetes service. After exposing service, you should be able to receive information by running `wget <external-ip>:<service-port>`. In case of port-forwarding above, you have to run `wget localhost:6789`.

1. Go to `cmd/new-ui/v1beta1`.

1. Run `main.go` file with appropriate flags, where:

   - `--build-dir` - directory with the frontend artifacts.
   - `--port` - port to access Katib UI.
   - `--db-manager-address` - Katib DB manager external IP and port address.

   For example, if you use port-forwarding to expose `katib-db-manager`, run this command:

   ```

>    go run main.go --build-dir=../../../pkg/new-ui/v1beta1/frontend/dist --port=8080 --db-manager-address=localhost:6789

Reviewer: Are you able to serve the UI from the `main.go` ?
I am getting `not found libs` error.

Author: Yes, where does this `not found libs` error appear? Is it on the request for index.html?

I'm able to see serve the app locally via the backend

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11134742/108832204-dcecfc80-75d3-11eb-991c-ba0e95df18bf.mp4

Reviewer: Yes, with the updated script it is working. Thank you @kimwnasptd!

Btw, once I access to the UI the namespace is not selected (it might be because I don't have `kubeflow-user` namespace). Should we show All Namespaces by default or you think we should show the first one?
![no-namespace](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/31112157/108848191-98b02b00-75d8-11eb-8fea-c5a296f4f8ee.gif)

Author: This is a good point. The reason you don't see a pre-selected value is because I've hardcoded to try and use the `kubeflow-user` namespace value. https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/blob/0c4a738625f52092f66ec462e800ddd2837e0f6d/components/crud-web-apps/common/frontend/kubeflow-common-lib/projects/kubeflow/src/lib/services/namespace.service.ts#L38

This is going to be an issue, especially if the app should be deployed as standalone.
Indeed a good next step would be to select the first Namespace of the list. In the future we could do some more sophisticated things, like remembering the last Namespace the user had chosen and select it once the user navigates to the app again.

I'll add a comment to the general issue about standalone/kf mode. This should be tackled in the common code for all of the web apps https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/5566

Reviewer: Make sense, thank you.

Author: I added a comment with next steps in both https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/5566#issuecomment-786576445 and in our katib issue as well https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/issues/1437#issuecomment-786579066 so we can keep track of this.

If you don't have any further suggestions for now then I think we can resolve this conversation.
